<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>III: On the Cliff</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-2-3" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">On the Cliff</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Gradually <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Burnett recovered his composure. His guest was so genial and friendly and appreciative of the scones and the currant cake that he began to upbraid himself for churlishness in allowing anything like a suspicion of this pleasant gentleman to linger in his mind. There remained a persistent little shadow which he could not quite drive away, but he conscientiously tried his best. As for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taylor, there never was a jollier and yet a more thoughtful companion. He seemed to think of every mortal thing that the minister could possibly need for his journey.</p>
			<p>“Got your passport?” he inquired.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said the minister. “I am carrying it in my breast-pocket. It ought to be safe there.”</p>
			<p>“The safest place possible!” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taylor cordially. “It’s all in order, I presume, eh?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Burnett took the passport out of his pocket and showed it to him. His guest closely examined the minister’s photograph which was attached, went through all the particulars carefully, and pronounced everything in order, as far as an ignorant outsider like himself could judge.</p>
			<p>“Of course,” he said, “I’m a business man, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Burnett, and I can tell when a thing looks businesslike, though I know no more about what the authorities require and why they ask for all these particulars than you do. It’s all red tape, I suppose.”</p>
			<p>As a further precaution he recommended his host to slip a few letters and a receipted bill or two into his pocketbook, so that he would have a ready means of establishing his identity if any difficulty arose. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Burnett was somewhat surprised, but accepted his guest’s word for it, as a shrewd Lancashire lad, that these little tips were well worth taking.</p>
			<p>By this time the evening was falling, and at length <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taylor declared himself ready for the road. He had drunk four cups of tea, and hurried over none of them. For a moment <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Burnett half wondered if he had any reason for delaying their start, but immediately reproached himself for harbouring such a thought. Indeed, why should he think so? There seemed nothing whatever to be gained by delay, with the dusk falling so fast and a long road ahead.</p>
			<p>The minister’s rug and umbrella and two leather bags were put into the car, he and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taylor got aboard, and off they went at last. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Burnett had another glance at the chauffeur, and again was haunted by an odd sense of familiarity; but once they had started, the view of his back in the gathering dusk suggested nothing more explicit.</p>
			<p>Presently they passed a corner, and the minister looked round uneasily.</p>
			<p>“What road are you taking?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“We’re going to join the coast road from Berwick,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taylor.</p>
			<p>“Isn’t that rather roundabout?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taylor laughed jovially.</p>
			<p>“My good James has his own ideas,” said he. “As a matter of fact, I fancy he knows the coast road and isn’t sure of the other. However, we needn’t worry about that. With a car like this the difference in time will be a flea-bite!”</p>
			<p>He had provided the minister with another excellent cigar, and smoking in comfort behind a glass windscreen, with the dim country slipping by and the first pale star faintly shining overhead, the pair fell into easy discourse. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taylor was a remarkably sympathetic talker, the minister found. He kept the conversation entirely on his companion’s affairs, putting innumerable questions as to his habits and way of life, and indeed his whole history, and exhibiting a flattering interest in his answers. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Burnett said to himself at last, with a smile, that this inquiring gentleman would soon know as much about him as he knew himself.</p>
			<p>Once or twice the minister wondered how fast they were really going. They did not seem to him to be achieving any very extraordinary speed, but possibly that was only because the big car ran so easily. In fact, when he once questioned his companion, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taylor assured him that actually was the explanation. It was thus pretty dark when they struck the coast road, and it grew ever darker as they ran northward through a bare, treeless country, with the cliff edge never far away and the North Sea glimmering beyond.</p>
			<p>They had reached an absolutely lonely stretch of road that hugged the shore closely when the car suddenly stopped.</p>
			<p>“Hallo!” exclaimed <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taylor, “what’s up?”</p>
			<p>The chauffeur half-turned round and said in a low voice⁠—</p>
			<p>“Did you see that light, sir?”</p>
			<p>“Which light?”</p>
			<p>The chauffeur pointed to the dark stretch of turf between them and the edge of the cliffs.</p>
			<p>“Just there, sir. I saw it flash for a second. I got a glimpse of someone moving too, sir.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taylor became intensely excited.</p>
			<p>“A spy signalling!” he exclaimed.</p>
			<p>“Looks like it, sir,” said the chauffeur.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taylor turned to the minister with an eager, resolute air.</p>
			<p>“Our duty’s clear, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Burnett,” said he. “As loyal subjects of King George⁠—God bless him!⁠—we’ve got to have a look into this!”</p>
			<p>With that he jumped out and stood by the open door, evidently expecting the minister to follow. For a moment <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Burnett hesitated. A vague sense that all was not well suddenly affected him. “Do not go!” something seemed to say to him. And yet as a man and a loyal subject how could he possibly decline to assist in an effort to foil the King’s enemies? Reluctantly he descended from the car, and once he was on the road, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taylor gave him no time for further debate.</p>
			<p>“Come on!” he whispered eagerly; and then turning to the chauffeur, “come along too, James!”</p>
			<p>Close by there was a gate in the fence, and they all three went through this and quietly crossed the short stretch of grass between the road and the cliffs, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Taylor and the minister walking in front and the chauffeur following close at their heels. Now that the car was silent, they could hear the soft lapping of the water at the cliff foot, but that and the fall of their feet on the short crisp turf were the only sounds.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Burnett peered hard into the darkness, but he could see absolutely nothing. All at once he realised that they were getting very close to the brink, and that if there were anyone in front they would certainly be silhouetted against the sky. There could not possibly be any use in going further; why then did they continue to advance? At that a clear and terrifying instinct of danger seized him. He turned round sharply, and uttered one loud ringing cry.</p>
			<p>He was looking straight into the chauffeur’s face, and it seemed as though he were looking into his own, distorted by murderous intention. Above it the man’s hand was already raised. It descended, and the minister fell on the turf with a gasp. He knew no more of that night’s adventure.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
