<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>I: Tiel‚Äôs Journey</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-5" id="chapter-5-1" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">Tiel‚Äôs Journey</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>For the moment the fortitude of the hapless young lieutenant completely broke down when he heard these tidings. It took him a minute to control his voice, and then he said‚ÅÝ‚Äî</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPlease give me back my revolver. I give you my word of honour not to use it on any of you three.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Commander Blacklock shook his head.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI am sorry we can‚Äôt oblige you,‚Äù said he.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPoor old chap,‚Äù said Phipps with genial sympathy; ‚Äúit‚Äôs rotten bad luck on you, I must admit.‚Äù</p>
			<p>These well-meant words seemed only to incense the captive.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI do not wish your damned sympathy!‚Äù he cried.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHush, hush! Ladies present,‚Äù said Phipps soothingly.</p>
			<p>Von Belke turned a lowering eye on Miss Holland. She had said not a word, and scarcely moved since he came into the room, but her breathing was a little quicker than usual, and her gaze had followed intently each speaker in turn.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAch so!‚Äù he said; ‚Äúthe decoy is still present. I had forgot.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Blacklock‚Äôs eye blazed dangerously.</p>
			<p>‚Äú<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝBelke,‚Äù he said, ‚ÄúCaptain Phipps and I have pleaded very strongly that, in spite of your exceedingly ambiguous position, and the fact that you have not always been wearing uniform, you should not suffer the fate of a spy. But if you make any more remarks like your last, I warn you we shall withdraw this plea.‚Äù</p>
			<p>For the first time Eileen spoke.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPlease do not think it matters to me, Captain Blacklock‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù she began.</p>
			<p>In a whisper Phipps interrupted her.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúEyewash!‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs the only way to treat a Hun‚ÅÝ‚Äîshow him the stick!‚Äù</p>
			<p>The hint had certainly produced its effect. Von Belke shrugged his shoulders, and merely remarked‚ÅÝ‚Äî</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI am your prisoner. I say nothing more.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs distinctly wiser,‚Äù said Captain Phipps, with a formidable scowl at the captive and a wink at Miss Holland.</p>
			<p>For a few moments von Belke kept his word, and sat doggedly silent. Then suddenly he exclaimed‚ÅÝ‚Äî</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut I do not understand all this! How should a German agent be a British officer? My Government knew all about Tiel‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI was told to be under his orders‚ÅÝ‚Äîit is impossible you can be he!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Blacklock turned to the other two.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI almost think I owe <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝBelke an explanation,‚Äù he said with a smile.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes,‚Äù cried Eileen eagerly, ‚Äúdo tell him, and then‚ÅÝ‚Äîthen he will understand a little better.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Blacklock filled a pipe and leaned his back against the fireplace, a curious mixture of clergyman in his attire and keen professional sailor in his voice and bearing, now that all need for pretence was gone.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe story I told you of the impersonation and attempted murder of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝAlexander Burnett,‚Äù he began, ‚Äúwas simply a repetition of the tale told me by Adolph Tiel at Inverness‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhere, by the way, he was arrested.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Von Belke started violently.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSo!‚Äù he cried. ‚ÄúThen‚ÅÝ‚Äîthen you never were Tiel?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI am thankful to say I never was, for a more complete scoundrel never existed. He and his friend Schumann actually did knock <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝBurnett on the head, tie a stone to his feet, and pitch him over the cliff. Unfortunately for them, they made a bad job of the knot and the stone came loose. In consequence, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝBurnett floated long enough to be picked up by a patrol boat, which had seen the whole performance outlined against the sky at the top of the cliff above her. By the time they had brought him back to a certain base, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝBurnett had revived and was able to tell of his adventure. The affair being in my line, was put into my hands, and it didn‚Äôt take long to see what the rascals‚Äô game was.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo,‚Äù commented Phipps; ‚ÄúI suppose you spotted that pretty quick.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPractically at once. A clergyman on his way here‚ÅÝ‚Äîclothes and passport stolen‚ÅÝ‚Äîleft for murdered‚ÅÝ‚Äîchauffeur so like him that the minister noticed the resemblance himself in the instant the man was knocking him down‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat was the inference? Pretty obvious, you‚Äôll agree. Well, the first step was simple. The pair had separated; but we got Tiel at Inverness on his way North, and Schumann within twenty-four hours afterwards at Liverpool.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGood business!‚Äù said Phipps. ‚ÄúI hadn‚Äôt heard about Schumann before.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell,‚Äù continued Blacklock, ‚ÄúI interviewed <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝTiel, and I found I‚Äôd struck just about the worst thing in the way of rascals it has ever been my luck to run up against. He began to bargain at once. If his life was spared he would give me certain very valuable information.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚Äú<i xml:lang="de">Mein Gott!</i>‚Äù cried Belke. ‚ÄúDid a German actually say that?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTiel belongs to no country,‚Äù said Blacklock. ‚ÄúHe is a cosmopolitan adventurer without patriotism or morals. I told him his skin would be safe if his information really proved valuable; and when I heard his story, I may say that he did save his skin. He gave the whole show away, down to the passwords that were to pass between you when you met.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He suddenly turned to Phipps and smiled.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs curious how the idea came to me. I‚Äôve done a good bit of secret service work myself, and felt in such a funk sometimes that I‚Äôve realised the temptation to give the show away if I were nailed. Well, as I looked at Tiel, I said to myself, ‚ÄòThere, but for the grace of God, stands Robin Blacklock!‚Äô And then suddenly it flashed into my mind that we were really not at all unlike one another‚ÅÝ‚Äîsame height, and tin-opener nose, and a few streaks of anno domini in our hair, and so on.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI know, old thing,‚Äù said his friend, ‚Äúit‚Äôs the wife-poisoning type. You see ‚Äôem by the dozen in the Chamber of Horrors.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Their Teutonic captive seemed to wax a little impatient.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat happened then?‚Äù he demanded.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat happened was that I decided to continue <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝTiel‚Äôs journey for him. The arrest and so on had lost a day, but I knew that the night of your arrival was left open, and I had to risk it. That splash of salt water on your motor bike, and your resource in dodging pursuit, just saved the situation, and we arrived at the house on the same night.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSo that was why you were late!‚Äù exclaimed von Belke. ‚ÄúFool that I was not to have questioned and suspected!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt might have been rather a nasty bunker,‚Äù admitted Blacklock, ‚Äúbut luckily I got you to lose your temper with me when I reached that delicate part of my story, and you forgot to ask me.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou always were a tactful fellow, Robin,‚Äù murmured Phipps.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOf course,‚Äù resumed Blacklock, ‚ÄúI was in touch with certain people who advised me what scheme to recommend. My only suggestion was that the officer sent to advise us professionally should be one whose appearance might lead those who did not know him to suspect him capable of treasonable inclinations. My old friend, Captain Phipps‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúRobin!‚Äù roared his old friend, ‚ÄúI read your bloomin‚Äô message. You asked for the best-looking officer on the staff, and the one with the nicest manners. Get on with your story!‚Äù</p>
			<p>These interludes seemed to perplex their captive considerably.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou got a pretended traitor? I see,‚Äù he said gravely.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúExactly. I tried you first with Ashington of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Haileybury</i>‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhom I slandered grossly by the way. If you had happened to know him by sight I should have passed on to another captain, till I got one you didn‚Äôt know. Well, I needn‚Äôt recall what happened at our council of war, but now we come to rather a‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù he hesitated and glanced for an instant at Miss Holland‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äúwell, rather a delicate point in the story. I think it‚Äôs only fair to those concerned to tell you pretty fully what happened. I believe I am right in thinking that they would like me to do so.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Again he glanced at the girl, and this time she gave a little assenting nod.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat night, after you left us, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝBelke, Captain Phipps and I had a long discussion over a very knotty point. How were we to get you back again here after you had delivered your message to your submarine?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI do not see exactly why you wished me to return?‚Äù said von Belke.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere were at least three vital reasons, In the first place someone you spoke to might have known too much about Tiel and have spotted the fraud. Then again, someone might easily have known the real Captain Ashington, and it would be a little difficult to describe Captain Phipps in such a way as to confound him with anyone else. Finally, we wished to extract a little more information from you.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Von Belke leapt from his seat with an exclamation.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat have I not told you!‚Äù he cried hoarsely. ‚Äú<i xml:lang="de">Mein Gott</i>, I had forgotten that! Give me that pistol! Come, give it to me! Why keep me alive?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI suppose because it is an English custom,‚Äù replied Commander Blacklock quietly. ‚ÄúAlso, you will be exceedingly glad some day to find yourself still alive. Please sit down and listen. I am anxious to explain this point fully, for a very good reason.‚Äù</p>
			<p>With a groan their captive sat down, but with his head held now between his hands and his eyes cast upon the floor.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWe agreed that at all costs this must be managed, and so I tried my hand at exercising my authority over you. I saw that was going to be no good, and gave it up at once for fear you‚Äôd smell a rat. And then I thought of Miss Holland.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Von Belke looked up suddenly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAh!‚Äù he cried, ‚Äúso that is why this lady appeared‚ÅÝ‚Äîthis lady I may not call a decoy!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat is why,‚Äù said Blacklock.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
