<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-3" id="chapter-3-9" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">On the Shore</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Soon after eleven o’clock two dark figures slipped unostentatiously out of the back door, and a moment later a third followed them. My heart leapt with joy and surprise at the sight of it, and Tiel stopped and turned.</p>
			<p>“What’s the matter?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“I’m coming too,” said Eileen.</p>
			<p>“Why?” he demanded in that tone of his which seemed to call upon the questioned to answer with exceeding accuracy.</p>
			<p>“Because I’d like a drive,” she answered, with a woman’s confidence that her reason is good enough for anybody.</p>
			<p>“As you please,” he said, drily and with unfathomable calm; and then he turned again, and in a voice that betrayed his interest in her, asked, “What have you got on?”</p>
			<p>“Quite enough, thank you.”</p>
			<p>“You are sure? I’ve lent my spare coat to Belke, but I can get another rug.”</p>
			<p>“I am quite sure,” she smiled.</p>
			<p>More than ever I felt glad I was staying beside her.</p>
			<p>Tiel sat in front and drove, and Eileen and I got in behind. He offered no objections to this arrangement, though as she seated herself while he was starting the engine, he was certainly not given much choice. And then with a deep purr we rolled off into the night.</p>
			<p>There would be no moon till getting on towards morning, but the rain had luckily ceased and the wind fallen, and overhead the stars were everywhere breaking through the last wisps of cloud. Already they gave light enough to distinguish sea from land quite plainly, and very soon they faintly lit the whole wide treeless countryside. The car was a good one, however Tiel had come by it, and the engine was pulling well, and we swept along the lonely roads at a great pace, one bare telegraph post after another flitting swiftly out of the gloom ahead into the gloom behind, and the night air rushing against our faces. At first I looked round me and recognised some features of the way we had come, the steep hill, and the sound that led to the western ocean, and the dark mass of hills beyond, but very soon my thoughts and my eyes alike had ceased to wander out of the car.</p>
			<p>We said little, just enough to serve as an excuse for my looking constantly at her profile, and, the longer I looked, admiring the more every line and every curve. All at once she leaned towards me and said in a low beseeching voice⁠—</p>
			<p>“You will come back, won’t you?”</p>
			<p>“I swear it!” I answered fervently, and to give force to my oath I gently took her hand and pressed it. If it did not return the pressure, it at least did not shrink from my clasp. And for the rest of the way I sat holding it.</p>
			<p>Presently I in turn leaned towards her and whispered⁠—</p>
			<p>“One thing I have been wondering. Should I take Tiel with me to see Wiedermann? It might perhaps be expected.”</p>
			<p>“No!” she replied emphatically.</p>
			<p>“You feel sure?”</p>
			<p>For reply she very gently pressed my hand at last. So confident did I feel of her sure judgment that I considered that question settled.</p>
			<p>“By the way,” she said in a moment, “I think perhaps it might be advisable to say nothing to Commander Wiedermann about me. It is quite unnecessary, and he⁠—well, some men are always suspicious if they think there is a woman in the case. Of course I admit they sometimes have enough excuse, but⁠—what do you think?”</p>
			<p>“I agree with you entirely,” I said emphatically.</p>
			<p>I know Wiedermann very intimately, and had been divided in mind whether I should drop a little hint that there were consolations, or whether I had better not. Now I saw quite clearly I had better not.</p>
			<p>“What’s that?” said Eileen in a moment.</p>
			<p>It was a tall gaunt monolith close to the roadside, and then, looking round, I saw a loch on the other side, and remembered the spot with a start. It was close by here that my cycle had broken down, and we were almost at the end of our drive. Round the corner we swung, straight for the sea, until we stopped where the road ended at the edge of the links.</p>
			<p>I gave Eileen’s hand one last swift pressure, and jumped out.</p>
			<p>“We shall wait for you here,” said Tiel in a low voice, “but don’t be longer than you can help. Remember my nerves!”</p>
			<p>He spoke so cheerily and genially, that for the moment I liked him again. In fact, if it had not been for Eileen, and his love of mystery, there was much that was very attractive in Tiel. As I set out on my solitary walk down to the shore, I suddenly wondered what made him so cheerful and bright at this particular moment, for it did not strike me as an exhilarating occasion. And then I was reminded of the man I had known most like Tiel, a captain I once served under, who was silence and calmness itself at most times, but grew strangely genial on critical occasions⁠—a heaven-sent gift. But from Tiel’s point of view, what was critical about this moment? The risk he ran at this hour in such an isolated spot was almost negligible, and as to the other circumstances, did it matter much to him whether I stayed or changed my mind and went away? I could scarcely believe it.</p>
			<p>I kept along by the side of the sandy track, just as I had done before, only this time I did not lose it. The rolling hummocky links were a little darker, but the stars shone in myriads, bright and clear as a winter’s night, and I could see my way well enough. As I advanced, I smelt the same pungent seaweed odour, and heard the same gulls crying, disturbed (I hoped) by the same monster in the waters. Fortunately the storm had blown from the south-east, and the sea in this westward-facing bay heaved quietly, reflecting the radiance of the stars. It was another perfect night for our purpose.</p>
			<p>I reached the shore and turned to the left along the rising circumference of the bay, looking hard into the night as I went. Something dark lay on the water, I felt certain of it, and presently something else dark and upright loomed ahead. A moment later I had grasped Wiedermann by the hand. He spoke but a word of cordial greeting, and then turned to descend to the boat.</p>
			<p>“We’ll get aboard before we talk,” said he.</p>
			<p>The difficult moment had come. Frankly, I had dreaded it a little, but it had to be faced and got over.</p>
			<p>“I am not coming aboard to-night, sir,” I replied.</p>
			<p>He turned and stared at me.</p>
			<p>“Haven’t you settled anything?” he demanded.</p>
			<p>“Something,” I said, “but there is more to be done.”</p>
			<p>I told him then concisely and clearly what we had arranged, and handed him the chart and all my notes. That he was honestly delighted with my news, and satisfied with my own performance, there could be no doubt. He shook me warmly by the hand and said⁠—</p>
			<p>“Splendid, Belke! I knew we could count on you! It’s lucky you have a chest broad enough to hold all your decorations! For you will get them⁠—never doubt it. But what is all this about staying on shore? What else are you needed for? And who the devil has given you such orders?”</p>
			<p>“Herr Tiel,” I said. “I was placed under his orders, as you will remember, sir.”</p>
			<p>“But what does he want you for? And how long does he imagine the British are going to let you stay in this house of yours unsuspected? They are not idiots! It seems to me you have been extraordinarily lucky to have escaped detection so far. Surely you are not going to risk a longer stay?”</p>
			<p>“If it is my duty I must run the risk.”</p>
			<p>“But is it your duty? I am just wondering, Belke, whether I can spare you, with this attack coming on, and whether I ought to override Herr Tiel’s orders and damn the consequences!”</p>
			<p>I knew his independence and resolution, but just at that moment there passed before my mind’s eye such a distinct, sweet picture of Eileen, that I was filled with a resolution and independence even greater than his.</p>
			<p>“If it were not my duty, sir,” I said firmly, “clearly and strongly pointed out by Herr Tiel, I should never dream of asking you to spare me for a little longer.”</p>
			<p>“He was then very clear and strong on the question?”</p>
			<p>“Extremely.”</p>
			<p>“And this other scheme of his⁠—do you feel yourself that it is feasible enough to justify you in leaving your ship and running such a terrible risk? Remember, you will be a man lost to Germany!”</p>
			<p>I have put down exactly what he said, though it convicts me of having departed a little from the truth when I answered⁠—</p>
			<p>“Yes, it will justify the risk.”</p>
			<p>After all, I had confidence enough in Tiel’s abilities to feel sure that I was really justified in saying this; but I determined to press him for some details of his plans to-morrow.</p>
			<p>Wiedermann stood silent for a moment; then he held out his hand and said in a sad voice⁠—</p>
			<p>“Good-bye! But my mind misgives me. I fear we may never meet again.”</p>
			<p>“That is nonsense, sir!” I cried as cheerfully as I could. “We shall meet again very soon. And if you wish something to cheer you, just study those plans!”</p>
			<p>And so we parted, he descending the bank without another word, and I setting out along the path that by now was beginning to feel quite familiar. I did not even pause to look back this time. My boats were burnt and I felt it was better to hurry on without dwelling longer on the parting. Besides, there was a meeting awaiting me.</p>
			<p>When I reached the end of the road, I found that Tiel had been spending the time in turning the car, and now he and Eileen stood beside it, but apparently not conversing.</p>
			<p>“All right?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” I said. “I met Wiedermann and gave him all the plans.”</p>
			<p>He merely nodded and went to start the engine. Again I was forcibly reminded of my old captain, and the way in which he became calmer and more silent than ever the moment the crisis was passed. But surely this crisis had been mine and not his! Anyhow, I felt a singularly strong sense of reaction and seated myself beside Eileen without a word. We had gone for a little way on our homeward road before either of us spoke, and then it was to exchange some quite ordinary remark. I put out my hand gently, but hers was nowhere to be found, and this increased my depression. I fell very silent, and then suddenly, when we were nearly back, I exclaimed⁠—</p>
			<p>“I wonder whether you are really glad that I returned?”</p>
			<p>“Very!” she said, and there was such deep sincerity in her voice that the cloud began to lift at once.</p>
			<p>Yet I was not in high spirits when I re-entered my familiar room.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
