<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>I</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-4" id="chapter-4-1" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">Wednesday</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>I woke on Wednesday morning with an outlook so changed that I felt as if some magician must have altered my nature. Theoretically I had taken a momentous and dangerous decision at the call of duty, and all my energies ought to have concentrated on the task of carrying it through safely, thoroughly, and warily. I had need of more caution than ever, and of the most constant vigilance⁠—both for the sake of my skin and my country. As a matter of fact I was possessed with the recklessness of a man drifting on a plank down a rapid, where taking thought will not serve him an iota. In vain I preached theoretical caution to myself⁠—exactly how vainly may be judged by my first performance in the morning when I found myself alone with Eileen in the parlour. She suggested that for my own sake I had better be getting back to my room.</p>
			<p>“Will you come and sit there with me?” I asked.</p>
			<p>“I may pay a call upon you perhaps.”</p>
			<p>“After hours of loneliness! And then leave me lonelier than ever! No, thank you, I shall stay down here.”</p>
			<p>“In your uniform?” she asked, opening her eyes a little. “No, no, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Belke!”</p>
			<p>“Well then, get me a suit of mufti!”</p>
			<p>She looked at me hard.</p>
			<p>“You will really run that risk?”</p>
			<p>“It is now worth it,” I said with meaning.</p>
			<p>She looked away, and for a moment I thought she was pained⁠—not displeased, I am sure, but as if something had given her a pang of sorrow. Then the look passed, and she cried⁠—</p>
			<p>“Well, if Tiel agrees!”</p>
			<p>“Tiel be hanged! I don’t care what he says!”</p>
			<p>She began to smile.</p>
			<p>“Do you propose to wear my clothes?” she inquired.</p>
			<p>“Yours!” I exclaimed.</p>
			<p>“Otherwise,” she continued, “you must persuade Tiel to agree, for it is only he who can provide you with a suit of mufti.”</p>
			<p>Presently Tiel came in and I put the demand to him at once. He looked a little surprised, but, somewhat to my surprise, raised no serious objections. His motives are hard to fathom, but I cannot help suspecting that despite his air of self-confidence and authority, he has an instinctive respect for an officer and acknowledges in his heart that I am really his superior.</p>
			<p>“You mustn’t go outside the house, of course,” he said, “and if by any evil chance any visitor were to come in unexpectedly, you must have some kind of a story ready.”</p>
			<p>“Have you had many visitors yet?” I asked with a touch of sarcasm.</p>
			<p>“You never know your luck,” said he, “and I believe in guarding against all chances. If you are surprised, please remember that your name is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Wilson.”</p>
			<p>“Wilson?” I said with some disgust. “Am I named in honour of that swine in America?”</p>
			<p>“You are named Wilson,” said he, “because it is very like Watson and Williams and several other common names. The less conspicuous and more easily forgotten a name one takes, the better.”</p>
			<p>There is no doubt about the thoroughness of the man and the cunning with which he lays even the smallest plans, and though I was a little contemptuous of his finesse at the moment, I must confess I was thankful enough for it not so very long afterwards.</p>
			<p>“As for your business,” added Tiel, “you are a Government inspector.”</p>
			<p>“Of what?” I asked.</p>
			<p>“If you are asked, look deep and say nothing,” said he. “The islands are full of people on what they call in the Navy ‘hush’ jobs.”</p>
			<p>“You seem pretty intimately acquainted with the British Navy down to its slang,” I observed.</p>
			<p>My nerves were perhaps a little strained this morning, and I meant by this to make a sarcastic allusion to the kind of blackguards he dealt with⁠—such as Ashington. I glanced at Eileen as I spoke, and I was surprised to see a sudden look, almost of alarm, in her eye. It was turned on Tiel, but he appeared absolutely indifferent. I presumed she feared he might take offence and make a row, but she need not have worried. It would take a very pointed insult to rouse that calculating machine.</p>
			<p>“Can you get a suit of mufti for me?” I inquired.</p>
			<p>“I’ll look one out presently,” said he.</p>
			<p>“I presume you keep a few disguises!” I added.</p>
			<p>“A few,” said he with one of his brief smiles. “You had better go up to your room in the meantime, and I’ll bring it to you.”</p>
			<p>I fumed at the idea of any delay, and as I went to the door I said⁠—</p>
			<p>“Don’t be long about it, please!”</p>
			<p>More and more the thought of leaving those two alone together, even for a short while, filled me with angry uneasiness, and I paced my bedroom floor impatiently enough. Judge then of my relief and delight when within a few minutes Eileen knocked at my door and said⁠—</p>
			<p>“I have come to pay you a morning call if I may.”</p>
			<p>I began to wish then that Herr Tiel would spend an hour or two in looking out clothes for me, and as a matter of fact he did. Eileen explained that he had said he must do some errand in his capacity as parish minister, but what the mystery-monger was really about, Heaven knows!</p>
			<p>“Now,” said I to Eileen, when we were seated and I had lit a cigarette, “I want to ask you something about this new scheme that we three are embarked upon.”</p>
			<p>She began to shake her head at once.</p>
			<p>“I am very much in the dark,” said she. “Tiel tells me as little as he tells you.”</p>
			<p>“You must surely know one thing. What is your own part in it? Why were you brought into the islands? Such risks are not run for nothing.”</p>
			<p>“What is a woman’s part in such a plan usually?” she asked in a quiet voice.</p>
			<p>I was a little taken aback. It was not exactly pleasant to think of⁠—in connection with Eileen.</p>
			<p>“I believe they sometimes act as decoys,” I said bluntly.</p>
			<p>She merely nodded.</p>
			<p>“Then that is your <i>rôle</i>?”</p>
			<p>“I presume so,” she said frankly.</p>
			<p>“Who are you going to decoy?” I asked, and I felt that my voice was harsh.</p>
			<p>“Ask Herr Tiel,” she answered.</p>
			<p>“Not that gross brute Ashington surely!”</p>
			<p>She shook her head emphatically, and I felt a little relieved.</p>
			<p>“You have seen for yourself that he needs no further decoying,” she said.</p>
			<p>“Then it must be some even higher game you’re to be flown at.”</p>
			<p>“I wonder!” she said, and smiled a little.</p>
			<p>I hated to see her smile.</p>
			<p>“I don’t like to think of you doing this,” I exclaimed suddenly.</p>
			<p>“Not even for Germany?” she asked.</p>
			<p>I was silenced, but my blood continued to boil at the thought of what might not be asked of her.</p>
			<p>“Would you go to any lengths,” I asked abruptly.</p>
			<p>“For my country I would, to any lengths!” she answered proudly.</p>
			<p>Again I felt rebuked, yet still more savage at the thought.</p>
			<p>“You would even become some British Admiral’s mistress?” I asked in a low voice.</p>
			<p>Her colour suddenly rose, and for an instant she seemed to start. Then in rather a cool voice she said⁠—</p>
			<p>“Perhaps we are thinking of rather different things.”</p>
			<p>And with that she changed the subject, nor could I induce her to return to it. I admit frankly I was a little puzzled. Her reception of my question, perfectly honestly put, had been curiously unlike the candour I should have expected in a girl of her strange profession, especially considering her defiance of all conventionalities in living alone here with two men, and sitting at this moment in the room of one of them. I respected her the more for her hint of affronted dignity. Yet I confess I felt bewildered.</p>
			<p>How long we had talked I know not, when at last Tiel appeared, bringing a very presentable tweed suit, and then they both left me, and I did the one thing I had so firmly resolved not to do. I discarded my uniform with what protection it gave me, and made myself liable to be shot without question or doubt. Yet my only feeling was gladness that I need no longer stay cooped up in my room while those two spent their hours together downstairs.</p>
			<p>That afternoon, when we were all three together, I asked Tiel for some definite information regarding his scheme, and we had a long, and I must say a very interesting, talk. The details of this plan it would scarcely be safe to put down on paper at present. Or rather, I should say, the outline of it, for we have scarcely reached the stage of details yet. It is a bold scheme, as was only to be expected of Tiel, and necessitated going very thoroughly into the relative naval strengths of Germany and Britain, so that most of the time for the rest of the day was taken up with a discussion of facts and figures. And through it all Eileen sat listening. I wonder if such a talk ever before had such a charming background?</p>
			<p>Now at last I am in my room, writing this narrative up to this very point. It is long past midnight, but sleep is keeping very far away from me. The weather has changed to a steady drizzle of rain. Outside, the night is black as pitch, and mild and windless. It may partly be this close damp air that drives sleep away, but I know it is something else as well.</p>
			<p>I am actually wondering if I can marry her! She must surrender; that is certain, for I have willed it, and what a German wills with all his soul takes place. It must! As to her heart, I feel sure that her kindness means what a woman’s kindness always means⁠—that a man has only to persevere. But marriage?</p>
			<p>I shall never meet another woman like her; that is certain! Yet an adventuress, a paid agent of the Secret Service, marrying a von Belke⁠—is it quite conceivable? On the whole I think <i>no</i>. But we can be very happy without that! I never loved a woman so much before⁠—that is my last word for the night!</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
